---
published: false
---


How many advertisements were you subjected to today?

One thing my predicament has revealed to me is that advertising - the act of promoting a named brand - is totally unnecessary in order to become known.

Word of mouth is still king, and when word of mouth cannot refer to the thing being promoted directly, we will come up with all sorts of euphemisms, superlatives, and under/backhanded contrasts and complements which do the same job as direct, paid promotion.

Advertising is always in a parasitic relationship with the content/spaces that allow it, this parasite then infiltrates our consciousness and more often pollutes than purifies it.

By allowing ourselves to be advertised at, most of us are forced to give assent to thoughts and ideas we do not know whether we should assent to. I say most of us, because most of us are not taught to withhold assent back in schools and colleges and are therefore bound to react by our natures. 

Only after we have been exposed to the ads are we faced with the decision whether to select or deselect their message, but by then it's already too late.

An example of this torture is advertisements of Harpic on prime time television, they come usually when I'm eating my dinner and are therefore, morally reprehensible. Even if I never buy a Harpic again (and I won't) my taste is still ruined in the moment.

Leave aside for a minute the [echo chambers](https://aeon.co/essays/why-its-as-hard-to-escape-an-echo-chamber-as-it-is-to-flee-a-cult) that are a result of this unilateral bombardment of mutually exclusive, usually contradictory claims of superiority (Which is the best detergent?) which most advertisements are, the bigger problem here is one of assent, or if you're a feminist, of consent.

When a millenial, or anyone with the basic understanding of how internet works Googles something, the first thing that they ignore are the paid links on top, yet businesses pay top dollar to keep their links floating there, because eyeballs means clicks, and clicks mean business (at the cost of treating people like organs without bodies, much less souls).

What they fail to understand is that smart people have figured out the links floating on top are probably the worst, unless they're the accepted standards, in which case they are even more horrible.

But maybe now is not the time to be saying this, after all we all know Facebook allowed Russia to infiltrate US elections by fake news and ... advertising?

So the next time you see an advertisement that you didn't give consent to view, remember your consciousness is being treated like a landfill.

There is no escape, it is on buses, on hoardings, on potted plants, on street-lights, in cinema halls and on highways etc. 

Two places where advertisements are relatively less prominent in my experience, are Hospitals and Libraries, which proves what really matters, I guess.

In any honest exchange, goods and services are traded for money. But in advertising-based business models, services are given for "free" so that eyeballs may be harvested. Only, by the time we realize that what we have assented to are more than just eyeballs, it is already too late. We have become the advertisement, the product, the service we allowed and/or tolerated.

So while the best minds of our generation are busy coming up with plans to bait more clicks and eyeballs, let us step back for a second and think whether we really need unsolicited advertising any more.

We may install ad-blockers and change the channels, but why won't we question the underlying assumptions of unasked-for advertising as a necessity for democracy. Not all advertisements can be blocked too (I'm looking at you, tube). 

Maybe it is time someone created a new Netflix or Google - one meant only for advertisements, classifieds. The reason to use these new platforms? Cryptocurrency, of course, one that we could later use spend to use the services which are free at present. This would also cut down on a lot of unncesary browsing, which is a whole different problem entirely.

As always, these are just my $0.02, don't take them too seriously.